SOURCE_URL: https://carbrain.com/blog/toyota-camry-problems-you-might-encounter
MODEL: Camry
SUBTOPIC: Common problems
============================================================

Toyota Camry Problems You Might Encounter

Are your Toyota Camry’s problems adding up? You might not be alone. Find out what problems this model is prone to developing. Learn why selling to CarBrain is your best choice!

We'll Buy Your Car!

Get Your Instant Quote!

Year

2022

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

1996

1995

1994

1993

1992

1991

1990

1989

1988

1987

1986

1985

1984

1983

1982

1981

Make

Model

Fair Prices

Free Towing

Great Service

Get An Offer Now

Common Toyota Camry Problems You Might Encounter

Toyota Camrys are popular choices for drivers that want a comfortable and reliable ride. However, despite its reputation for reliability, the Toyota Camry is prone to its own set of recurring problems. Some of them can be quite costly to repair. 

If your vehicle is constantly sending you to the mechanic’s, it may be time to consider selling it instead. Find out what common problems plague the Toyota Camry and what to do when your repair bills start adding up. 

Common 2007 Toyota Camry Problems

The 2007 Toyota Camry has problems that can be major hazards on the road. This includes: 

Engine problems
. The vehicle has a problem with 
excess oil consumption
, which means drivers have to refill the oil far more frequently than they need to. The cost of doing this adds up over time. 

Toyota performed a recall on 2007-2009 Toyota Camrys for this issue, but it was limited in scope. There was a 
class action lawsuit
 against Toyota for this problem that is now closed to new applicants. 

Dashboard problems
. For whatever reason, the dashboard material may 
melt
 after a few years and too much time in the sun. Drivers complain that this makes driving difficult as it affects their view of the road. 

Toyota briefly extended their warranty to address it, but no 2007 models are still in their warranty for this. It can cost 
$2,000
 or more to replace the dashboard.

Brake problems
. Both the brake actuator and the brake boosters may 
suddenly fail
, leading to major hazards on the road. The brake actuator’s failure is typically marked by 
the ABS and Brake lights
 coming on, followed by the odometer going haywire. 

For the brake booster, drivers will notice that the pedal will depress all the way to the floor and may hear a hissing sound. It can cost 
$2,000
 to fix the actuator, and 
between $1,000 and $1,500
 for the brake boosters.

Common 2012 Toyota Camry Problems

The 2012 Camry is another problem model with a few issues of its own. This includes:

AC problems.
 Many Camry owners complain that the AC has an incredibly unpleasant, musty odor. Some have compared it to animal urine, while others have described it as smelling like mold. This doesn’t appear to affect the safety of the vehicle, but it can be a supremely unpleasant experience for drivers. 

Transmission problems
. Several drivers have reported that the 2012 Toyota Camry has transmission problems. Most significantly, drivers have reported that the transmission may unexpectedly fail while the vehicle is still relatively new. 

Average failure rate is below 45,000 miles. This can be a major unexpected expense when transmissions are typically expected to last between 150,000 and 200,000 miles. Replacing the transmission can cost 
around $5000
. 

Engine problems
. Like the 2007-2009 Toyota Camrys, many drivers have reported that the 2012 model 
consumes oil excessively
. It is important to check the oil continuously, as driving a vehicle without oil can 
seriously damage the engine
.

Common 2014 Toyota Camry Problems

Although the 2014 Camry is generally considered a reliable model, it too has some problems that have been commonly reported: 

AC problems
. Unfortunately, the 2014 model of the Camry seems to have the same appalling odor as the 2012 model. Drivers that have taken it to their mechanics have been largely unsuccessful in fixing the problem. Consider investing heavily in car air fresheners.

Paint problems
. For a relatively new vehicle, drivers would expect the paint to remain intact. Unfortunately, it’s prone to premature peeling. Toyota covered the problem under warranty for three years, but vehicles today won’t be covered under that. 

Luckily, this is a cosmetic issue and not a driving problem. Unfortunately, if you care about the appearance of your car, you could be shelling out 
$2,000 or more
 to repaint it. 

Engine problems
. A few drivers have reported sudden unexpected acceleration while driving. The vehicle may hesitate to respond before suddenly lurching much faster than expected. 

This creates a major safety hazard on the road. The apparent cause hasn’t been identified yet. Be cautious when driving and always leave adequate space between you and the car in front of you. 

Common 2018 Toyota Camry Problems

The 2018 Toyota is relatively new enough that it shouldn’t have too many complaints. However, there are a few that have come in so far: 

Transmission problems
. Drivers have complained that the 2018 Toyota Camry has transmission problems. The vehicle shifts roughly while driving, may hesitate to shift gears and may respond suddenly after a delay. 

Toyota issued a technical service bulletin to address it, but a few drivers have complained that the bulletin did not solve the problem. This is a relatively brand new vehicle. 
Transmission problems this early
 could be a sign of trouble.

Brake problems
. A few drivers have reported that on occasion, the brakes can become unresponsive. The cause is unknown, but the risk is obvious. 

EXPERT EVALUATION

Our expert evaluators can help you get an accurate estimate for your car's value, FAST!

Get Your Expert Evaluation, 
FAST
!

Should You Sell Your Car With Problems?

If the cost of repairing the vehicle is 50 percent or more of its value, consider selling it. However, you shouldn’t base your decision off a single number alone. When you decide whether to repair your car or not, you have to consider all of the following:

How much money have you spent repairing your car so far?

Is your car likely to need additional repairs in the future? 

How much will the repair job cost?

How long will it take to repair the car?

Will you need to rent a vehicle while the car is repaired?

If you need to rent a vehicle, how much will it cost? 

Only after considering all the above can you decide whether selling it or fixing it is right for you. 

If you decide that you’d rather sell it, there are plenty of options to do so. You can sell it to a private individual, which might earn you the most money depending on your car. However, it can take a long time. 

You can also sell it to a junkyard or scrap yard for a quick sale. Keep in mind that yards generally pay for the scrap metal value of your car, so you might not necessarily get the best price. 

Another option is to 
sell your car online
. Many online car buyers will offer quotes in minutes. They also generally include free towing, so you don’t have to worry about transportation costs. 

However, not all online car buyers are equal. Learn why CarBrain is the best choice to sell your car fast and for a fair price. 

Why Sell To CarBrain.com?

CarBrain is the 
market for less-than-perfect cars
. Whether your car was involved in a collision, has mechanical damage or just doesn’t turn on, we can make an offer. With over a decade of experience buying damaged cars, we know how to determine a fair market offer for your vehicle.

Getting a quote from CarBrain takes less than 90 seconds. Our quotes always include FREE towing and FREE title transfer, and they’re guaranteed for seven days, giving you time to think it over. If you like our offer, we can help you schedule your free pickup in under 48 business hours.

You get paid when we get the car. Our service is the fast, safe and modern way to sell a less-than-perfect car for a fair payment. 

How To Sell Your Car With Problems To CarBrain

Selling to CarBrain is easy. All you have to do is:

Click “get an offer.”

Fill out the form.

Get your quote!

You can get a guaranteed offer by uploading current photos of your vehicle and its VIN. If you like our price, we can help you schedule a pickup at a time convenient for you.

The tow truck driver will arrive with a check in hand. All you have to do is sign the title and hand over the keys. You’ll be paid on the spot. 

It’s that simple. Why wait? Get a quote from CarBrain and find out how much you can get for your damaged car today.

Need answers? Get FREE advice from our client care experts NOW!

(866) 781-3698

Chat Now

Frequently Asked Questions

What are the best Toyota Camry years to avoid?
In general, Toyota Camrys made between 2001 and 2005 are most likely to have issues. If you are looking to purchase a used Toyota Camry, it makes sense to avoid these model years.
How many miles can a Toyota Camry last?
Toyota Camrys are known as reliable vehicles. If well-maintained, many can reach 300,000 miles or more. However, poor maintenance can significantly shorten the lifespan of your Camry.
Does the Toyota Camry have transmission problems?
Certain model years, like the 2012 Camry, are known for having more transmission problems than other years. However, in general, Toyota Camrys are not known for frequent transmission problems. Instead, they're likely to develop other issues, such as problems with the engine and excess oil consumption.

For what it’s worth...

CarBrain is the premier marketplace for less-than-perfect cars!

Find Out The True Value Of Your Car