SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/Honda/comments/1j5fkh9/its_kind_of_hilarious_how_badly_the/
MODEL: Civic
SUBTOPIC: Owner opinion
============================================================

It's kind of hilarious how badly the ninth-generation Honda Civic has aged. It got updated THREE times, shortly before the next redesign.

I can't think of a vehicle that aged worse than the ninth-generation Honda Civic. It was updated a whopping THREE times, in not even 5 years of its cycle, but only 4 years in total.

From the launch of the 2012 Civic, to the emergency refresh for the 2013 Civic, to yet even another list of updates done for the 2014 Civic (I.E. The CVT replacing the 5-speed auto). And that's all just shortly before the tenth-generation Civic was launched, for the 2016 model year.

Honda really tried to keep the Civic competitive, but they quickly gave up on the ninth-gen and went back to the drawing board by entirely re-imagining the Civic for the next redesign.

--- COMMENTS ---

The whole 2012 Civic debacle was some of Honda's worst, yet best moments. 

Yes they totally misjudged what their customers wanted. Designed during the financial crisis, they thought the customers would prefer something cheaper. Turned out they expected way more from a brand like Honda. I think this solidified the "Honda Premium" direction.

The unprecedented quick turnaround for a mid cycle refresh was impressive. These things usually take years to design, develop and get through the supply chain. They did it in about 18 months. There's nothing hilarious about it.

I have a 2013 - I think it looks good, especially the coupe.

You're laughing because Honda realized they missed the mark and worked hard to fix their mistake?

You might wanna check out the Nissan subreddit down the road. After 15 years of failure, they still use xtronic CVTs.

I have some insight into this. We make interior parts for Honda. When the 2012 civic came out we were still in a financial crisis, so Honda made a civic with the lowest possible starting price (2012). People didn’t seem to want cheap cars and wanted all the bells and whistles. Also the Korean cars were coming pretty loaded. So Honda redesigned it after only one year, eating the cost. And by redesign I mean everything down to the texture on the plastic parts. Massive molds used only for a year were re-made. Non other company would do this. Honda listened to their customer and redesigned the civic while eating the cost. 
Also, I owned a 2012 coupe, and Honda offered an extra $2000, + -1% (From the factory on the dealer) on a trade in for another Honda because they felt bad.

I think the facelifted 9th gens are beautiful though. It looks like a modernized, more mature 8th gen, and I'm all for it.

Well, it's just the american car design language. Look at any american market car from that era. They're all boring. The Eu model only got 1 facelift and the facelift still looks modern even tho it's 10 years old. The 10th gen Civic is based on the 9th gen hatchback, there wasn't any big reimagination. Similar trunk door, similar tail lights, similar dashboard layout, similar aggressive styling.

2012 was my first civic. Dyno blue with tan interior. Standard Transmission, got rid of last year with 250,000 miles on it. It was the most reliable and dependable car I ever owned. Not once did it break down to the point that i was unable to drive it.

 Have a 2024 SI now. I will most likely own a Civic for my next vehicle, too. I've always liked their style.

I love my 2012 civic, are there problems with them? or do people just not like the look?

The refreshed sedan looks pretty good just not exciting… front end is a naturally evolution of 7th and 8th gen… I liked the 10th gen but I’m sure some thought it was too boy racer or a gundam

I still own my 2012 civic.

I love my 2014 civic lol

I had a 2012 Civic. I loved that car. Didn’t realize it was a failure. 

My 2012 LX is at 380k miles original trans and motor. Very solid car. Have no issues using it as a daily

Horrible take, the 9th Gen Civic was the last good Civic before all of the problems that came with the 10th and 11th Gens.

There’s a reason why the 12-15 Civic Si still go for a lot of money.

This was the Bush recession era civic that pushed cost cutting to the absolute max so they were trying to polish a turd.

Why does everyone hate my 2012 Si I freakin love it still :(

I love my 2012 Si sedan. It has clean lines, low profile spoiler, nice wheels and no chrome!

My commute car is a civic 2012 red exactly like the one in the photo. I'm over 225 k km on it and it's running like new. Id bought this car in 2014 as an off lease with 32k km on it. Since then I only changed breaks, fluids and pretty much that's it. Everything else works perfect. I don't get your post. You mean the design? I love the look of it. 

Aged worse? Pardon me but it's one of the cars who manages best to merge modern and older tech. You get stability control, traction control, a top of the line digital instrument cluster with a central RPM gauge, a real time fuel consumption gauge. What else could you ask for in a fun commuter car? Maybe I'm just biased cause I have 2012 DX but honestly I far prefer my 2012 over the 10th gen. Not to account in the Si Coupe who has to be one of the best looking Si I've seen in a long while

Spaceship civic gang 💪

I am a Gen 8 guy who considered his bulletproof 2009 DXVP the apogee of automotive value (sadly she got hit while parked and struck down in prime of life at 230k miles. Never threw a code. Endured brutal urban slogs averaging less than 20mph during that time with only a little front end work needed near end as Inwas navigating a blighted moonscape). If I could have bought a Gen 8 fresh out of Allison last spring- with presumably a bit morr sound deadening, I would have done so. 

I like the Gen 8 better obviously and love the Gen 11s throwback Gen 2 Civic front end and more expensive looking stance. 

But the Gen 9 got a bad deal after the Comsumer Reports hit piece (they were claiming it was slower, had worse brakes and all kinds of weird shit when it was basically a mildly updated version of a car they previously loved). 

Yes. the Gen 8 looked better but they are basically the same R18 car. I think the early refresh looks pretty decent. The early Gen 9s are a bit goofy in the haunches. 

But Im not down with that first gen CVT though. Honestly, the CVT business probably spooked me idiotically into not getting my third Miser Edition Civic last fall (in this case an LX)- although my family was all about the hybrid touring. 

The reality is that the basic Civic is a 30-40mpg car that is fast enough to keep up with traffic, reliable and inexpensive. They are getting upsized to share road with bigger cars safely. Prices are getting a bit rough- but keep in mind an EX Civic in 1995 already 18k.

This was the last good looking civic

The 14-15 si coupe still looks good.

Fwiw, the 2014-15 civic si was a much better car than the generation that followed it (imo, if that wasn’t obvious)

I think the face lift on the 9th gen did some good in the long run. I personally think the 9th gen was the last good looking SI. I recently saw a SI sedan with hybrid tail lamps and it looked great.

9th Gen arguably is one of the last true Hondas, it’s NA and not turbocharged. One of the awesome things about Honda engines was their revving capability and durability. 

Now it’s not the Vtec that made Honda be Honda but just another car with a tiny engine and a tiny turbo. 

I had a 2015 Si for 7 years. Swapped the head for a ported k20, 1000cc injectors, cai, dp, and a nice 3 inch exhaust plus one of the best tuners around. Made a nice 240whp and had a redline of over 9k rpm. I took it to the drag strip a couple of times and to a little auto cross. Fun car.

I got a 2012 lx sedan. Bought it from a grandma in 2019. I was well aware this car was super reliable and it was bit cheaper than the 13-15s. Still runs perfectly without issues.

Looks are subjective, but I think this car looks completely appropriate for it being a commuter economy car. I just don't think it needs to look like a stealth fighter jet if it isn't one.

How badly it has aged? Imo, the 2013 Sedan has to be the best Civic that's come out for years. Still has a 5 speed auto or 6 speed manual, had factory fog lights, navigation, sunroof, and heated seats for the top trim level. The interior felt great for its time, and there were no major issues or recalls for that specific model year if my memory serves me correctly. Now, I have a biased opinion as I had one before it was totaled back in October.

I disagree almost entirely 😂. The 9th gens have aged beautifully and still look great. The 10th gens are aging poorly in my opinion

I absolutely love my 14 si, the 12 has started to grow on me as I get old (exterior wise atleast)

It's aged like every other average sedan of that timeframe. Basic transportation. Find something better to do with your time.

2015 Si is where it's at. 9th had great exterior lines and solid cabin and interior materials. 10th gen wasn't really an upgrade, and it was overdesigned and was cheaply made. 11th gen has the looks and the tech. 9th was a bridge between the Japanese designs of 8th and 10th as they had to recover from natural disasters and financial issues followed.

I would have agreed with you when they came out. But this is a good genration of the civic. 4 door si looks awesome in this generation.

How many is that?

I think the facelift 2013+ sedans aged well. I had a 2013 sedan Si and I loved it a lot. Great daily driver.

I used to hate this gen but the refresh has really grown on me as of late, especially the si sedan.

I had a 2013 coupe and I really liked it. I only got a new car because I needed 4 doors.

My wife drives a manual 2012 civic. I wouldn't say it looks old or ugly. I had a 2015 civic and I couldn't really judge the looks of one over the other on the outside. On the inside the 2015 was better though.

I dunno, I thought the rear kd the 2013 sedan was spot on. But the 8th (2006-2011) I would say is the pinnacle! Endless parts still available, and the 2.0 vtec *MUAH* love it! 😌😌

I totally blame the 2011 earthquake and tsunami.

Someone who had the Acura version wanted MY dash. I laughed and said somebody watched too much Knigt rider as a kid when they designed it

I’ve got a 2015 coupe and I am so happy with it compared to the 2016 redesign. 2016 just looks gaudy and cheap to me. It even looked gaudy to Honda because they toned things down heavily. Happy to not be the odd duck.

I have a 2012 and I think it’s a great car IMHO. It gets me where I need to be and saves gas, so definitely a win in my book!

I wonder if this makes them a good value on the used car market?

A few years later, Honda actually went around and did an Apology Tour at the President Award winning dealers. 

They straight out admitted the 2000s were laden with bad decisions, that culminated in the 2012 civic. 

That they were able to turn the 12 civic into the 13 in a relative handful of months was nothing short of amazing.

9th gen is overated imo

I just recently bought a 2015, in part bc I freaking love the design.

I believe the 2013 civic was the last civic to receive a regular automatic transmission which I prefer. The 2014 and onward have CVT.

I think my 9th gen has aged pretty nicely IMO

https://imgur.com/a/SNd1X2Q

Fast forward to today. I have a 2012 LX sedan with a manual transmission. Have owned it almost 2 years. After the initial maintenance catch ups it’s been a great car. Easy to own, fun-ish to drive and good on MPG also the insurance is not bad. It only has 122k on it. It’s possible for me to keep it 10 years. We have owned 3 Civics. 2004 which was great. 2006 less great. The 2012 is much better. Very happy.