SOURCE_URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/civic/comments/114q2fo/almost_5_years_since_i_owned_a_honda_civic_2018/
MODEL: Civic
SUBTOPIC: Long-term ownership
============================================================

Almost 5 years since I owned a Honda Civic 2018 and this is my honest review

I bought a Honda Civic 2018 from the dealer in July 2018 after a nasty experience driving a Ford Focus 2012. It is now at 94,000 KM (58k miles). 

Pros: 
+ Good interior 
+ The side view camera is an excellent Honda safety feature. Almost 5 years on, it is still clear, crisp and practical. 
+ Ages well 
+ Minimal road noise, and good ride comfort. 
+ No major issues (good reliability so far) - Plug &amp; Play. 
+ Fuel economy is good. I'm averaging at 6.4 l/100km (36.7mpg) 
+ I get compliments on the interior all the time. Partially because it looks almost new as I take very good care of it. But also because the interior genuinely looks good on a cheap economic car. 

Cons: 
- The driver seat is uncomfortable especially for long distances. (this might be subjective but I really dislike the seat) 
- No volume knob, but this is remedied by the buttons on the steering. 
- The AC performance is below average. 
- There is rattling noise, albeit minor, somewhere in the front. Never checked where it is coming from. 
- My windshield surpisingly cracked at around 5k miles due to a minor hit from a small pebble, and I had to replace it. 
- Although the CVT is good so far and far better than Toyotas or Nissans I tried, it is slightly annoying in roundabouts or intersections as it sometimes is "unpredictable". 
- For some reason, I'm changing my batteries almost every year. I changed my batteries 3-4 times since I bought the car. 
- The cup holder compartment is awkwardly placed and very impractical. It should have been at least raised like every other car and separate from the armrest compartment. 

I'm curious to hear your HONEST takes on the car as well.

--- COMMENTS ---

I agree with some cons (2017 first owner)

Driver seat is trash (mine is coming apart I’m 6’0 240 lbs.) the supports are coming apart on my seat.

Ac (have you gone to the dealer and checked for the extended warranty on our ac condenser.) our model year had faulty ac condensers and yours might be covered by warranty. Got mine replaced last November free of charge. They also refill the ac. 

Windshield crack is wear and tear. Nothing to do with the civic…

Battery, are you swapping with oem? Don’t expect oem quality time without oem quality products. (Unless you use auto headlights. I’ve worked at dealer for many years and noticed this drains battery pretty fast.) I don’t have or use auto headlights but I chill in my car often, battery lasts about 3 years. 

But I agree with mostly everything else. Get that ac checked at the dealer if you haven’t, free fix! Ask if it’s still covered under the extended warranty for ac condensers. 

I agree with all the pros, these are a great car! Have fun fellow civic friend!

The sound system as a whole is definitely a con about the 10th gens. I have the EX-T with the "premium" system, and it fucking sucks. I've upgraded the speakers and added some sound deadening, and it's helped a bit, but the head unit is just bad.

The cup holder is weird as hell too, I agree.

Odd that you've had that experience with the battery. I got my 2017 2 years ago, still has the OEM battery I think. I use auto headlights and I installed a 1,000 watt RMS subwoofer in the trunk and my battery is still healthy. 

I personally like the driver's seat, but I've found I need to adjust it so I'm sitting a little farther back from the pedals than I usually prefer for super long trips. I've driven up and down the west coast a couple times in my car, usually driving 13 hours a day on those trips, and as long as my legs are extended a little more than usual I'm good. I'm 6' 170 pounds. 

I get rattling too which is annoying, sesms to come from my passenger seatbelt area but I've never been able to find where exactly. It's intermittent and usually only happens when I'm accelerating from a stop. The car used to have other rattles but I've stuffed a lot of foam into places since my subwoofer caused a ton of rattling too. Now other than that one intermittent rattle it's pretty much rattle free.

I'm also disappointed that the car doesn't have arm rests. The center console is completely unusable as one. My arms tend to get tired if I drive all day.

Bought mine in 2019

I agree with the driver seat on long distances although that happens to me with most cars being 6’4”

The only real problem I have is the touch controls on the dash, seems like everyone agrees on that. 

I had an AC issue last year but the dealer fixed it free in a service. There was a gas leak. 

The left side camera is so so good, I miss it when I drive my girlfriends car. 

I also love the speed limiter for longer drives (not a big fan of cruise control in general)

Overall though I’ve never enjoyed driving a car as much as this one. Has a great take off and handling. I just wish I spent the extra money and got an RS or LX over the VTI L for those extra comfort features.

As an owner of multiple civics I recommend one change to fix the battery system.

Rip out the battery box, and jam a bigger battery in it.

Once I did that, never had another electrical issue. The stock batteries are barely big enough to keep the door locks powered and still start two days later.

Don't park at an airport for a week, until you switch it up.

Other people have commented on the AC issues. I definitely had it on my 2017. 

The battery thing shocks me (pun intended) because I’m still on my original when i got it new. 

The seats a bit of a conundrum. I think you have to find an arrangement that works. I definitely cant sit how i would normally drive. My feet and seat are closer to the pedals and my back leans way more back than normal.

Do 2018 non-hatch civics really not have a volume knob?

Cause I have a 2018 Hatch and I have a volume knob.

I too have a Honda Civic 2018. I still love my car! I was coming from a 2011 Civic, of which was a disappointment to me. 

I miss having buttons and a volume knob for the entertainment system. Was fixed in later model years.
I hate the touch screen climate control system. I need dedicated buttons. Was fixed in later model years.
For some reason my AM and FM radio is all static. I cannot get clear audio from any radio station. 

I love the cup holder compartment! I could take the cup holders out and fit a laptop in there vertically. 
I love the Turbo too! I still have no idea what the L shift setting is.

EDIT: I love the automatic headlights, push to start, and remote start.

2018 si coupe here. Funny you mention a rattling, anytime I surpass 45 mph (approx), a slight rattle will become faintly audible from somewhere underneath my driver seat, never has become a serious issue though. 

Only advice I could offer for CVT being “unpredictable” is to switch to manual.

2017 owner here. 

Pros:

- love the look, its aggressive especially when you black out the chrome
- solid performance, driving around in NYC i don't need a lot of power but when i need it, its there.
- saves a ton on gas
- all the amenities, carplay, remote start, seat warmer, cameras.

Cons:
- poorly built. Oil dilution issue for those who live in cold areas and dont drive long distances. A/C cond. issue that requires replacements that will continue to have issues, poor paint jobs (chipping)
- honda no longer the brand that it once was. before anyone gets upset. I went from 91 honda accord to 09 honda civic (still have) to this car. this car has been the worst experience with service by far.

I had to replace the battery once and it was due to me installing HID lights and using automatic headlights. After replacing the battery and removing the HID kit, battery has been great.

I’ve had my 2018 civic for almost two years (44k miles), love the car I need to check out the AC warranty and hope I can still get that fixed before something happens.

Been looking at a 2018 civic sport touring hatchback for sale near me so this thread helped me out.

I agree with all of you points except I hate that side camera. 
If you’re referring to the one that switches on every time you flip the turn signal.
Ya I can’t stand that.
I rely heavily on GPS bc I’m directionally challenged, and I’ll make a right turn into the wrong intersection all the time because I can’t see the GPS monitor anymore.

You forgot another pro, well, if you got the EX-T 2018 Civic anyways…it’s 0-60mph is amazing for the value you spend. I clocked 6.4 secs 0-60. For the deal I got around 25k that is outstanding if you consider your gas mileage with that is also good. I looked it up and apparently all the newer models, even the other ext newer models 0-60’s just don’t even come close to that. I feel I got super lucky with my 2018 year EX-T purchase, all the other ext newer ones are duds in the sense of quick acceleration. I rented one that was a newer one when mine was in the shop getting fixed up for new tires and it felt like a turtle 🐢

First owner
215k miles
Still going strong.
All Maintenance done at Honda
AC problems at 100k, dry, filled up by Honda, no cost, last another 100k
At 200k AC gave out. Honda had a recall, changed the entire system for zero $.
Still drives great and peppy…
Cons… it’s a cheap car, problems yes, I’d buy another one just like it with 200k miles no problem.

Has anyone had issues with the turbo? Wondering if it’s time to offload mine before having issues. 2018 Honda Civic Sport Hatchback roughly 130k miles

I had some battery troubles, but only after I installed and ran my sub for a month or so and then the dash lit up like christmas. It started fine the entire time, so I'm not sure what was wrong, but a replacement fixed it right up.

The battery was OEM from September 2017 so it was past its 3-5 year advertised life.

First time I seated in I thought that's my car.

I have the 2017 NT model, which is the top trim, and as auto wipers. They are a hit and miss at best. Had a service yesterday and asked if it was possible to recalibrate the auto wipers and they said they couldn’t find a fault. I’d rather adjust the intermittent wipers manually because I’m very particular. 

AC issue as well and will take it in again to have it fixed under warranty. The AC isn’t is not cold as it should be. 

Same with the rattling. Sounds like it’s from the front middle speaker on certain roads. 

The “premium” 10 speaker system is sub par in my opinion. Especially when you don’t have the volume high, the sound isn’t pleasant. I have tinkered with settings. 

Otherwise, really happy with the car and what it offers.

What model do you have?

Curious as the touring seats have more adjustments and should be better.

The reason I ask is I just put a deposit on a touring without driving it.

I did find the sport seats not to be the comfiest

I absolutely love the center console/cup holder area. I have my seat all the way down with my back pretty upright and it’s great for an armrest for me. I love how I feel deep in the cockpit. Most cars sit pretty high above the console area and I hate it.

That battery life is a problem for sure. I turned off the auto headlights AND the feature where your headlights stay on after you get out of your car for a while. It's unnecessary battery drain.

Replace the negative cable on the battery (from battery “-“ to frame). Identical issues with an Acura, and this $15 part was the problem.

I wanted to comment in case anyone is having alternator problems-

Have you reported your Honda civic alternator problem to the nhtsa and to Honda? It is my personal belief that this is a faulty alternator that should be recalled. If you report it to Honda and nhtsa, it’s possible they could issue a recall and you could get your money back. I believe the problem is that the alternators were bad and overcharging the batteries in low mileage civics which is a hazard that could explode there for should be a recall.

Someone said to upgrade the battery. I agree, but I went a step further and upgraded the battery ground wire, engine block ground wire, and alternator power wire to 0 awg ofc. It's called a big 3 upgrade. It's not a hard thing to do yourself. I'm sure there's plenty of videos about it and it's benefits. I'll upgrade my alternator also if this one dies

I love my 2018 Civic EX Hatchback! I hope it runs for the next 20 years. Currently at 75k.

There is a recall for the 2018 Honda Civic hatchback air compressor in the air-conditioning unit which fails- that is probably most likely what is causing your below AC

I bought my 2018 civic LX new off the lot in 2018, 5 years later, 60,000 km, only issue is battery. Still on original battery, but its gotta be replaced soon, these central Canada winters a brutal and the battery is showing its age now. 

I will mention the "Brake Hold" function, i now trust it, but it has failed majorly once. 

2 weeks after owning the car, one time it did not Disengage the brakes when trying to accelerate from a fully stopped position at a Stop sign. The dealership said that no one has ever reported that ever happening, at all. Anyone here ever experience this? 

I tried to go forward and the entire car fought locked brakes that never disengaged and only managed to move like 2 feet forward making horrible, loud grinding noise, screeching tires and the car shook like a bugger and abruptly stopped less than 2 feet forward. Terrifying when you don't understand how or why this happened, especially after 2 weeks of being purchased (only had 12km on the odometer at purchase, less than 300km by this point). I avoided that brake hold function for about 5 months, before i tested it again and It has never done that since in 5 years and i use the brake hold function every day now. 

The minor annoying fact with the Brake Hold feature, in slow traffic, if the car registers 0 km/h on the dash, the brakes engage while the car is still in motion and you hear the car rotors scrape when the brakes lock. Mind you, they scrape maybe a an inch or 2 as the car is barely moving. According my mechanic friend, who has no connections to any dealership, says my rotors are still fine considering basic wear and tear. Still on original rotors and brake pads, which i didn't know brake pads last this long. 

I went with the LX because it was cheaper and the higher trims are over priced for practically the same car. Lane assist and Crash assist are not as great as everyone thinks, I don't trust a function like that. The brake hold function has a different purpose, thats why I trust it... now at least.

The clarity of my basic speakers is nice, for base LX trim model, the treble is quite acceptable to my ears. The bass is extremely lack luster, looking into a subwoofer, its all I need in my opinion. Slight rattle from driver side door near the tweeter, I suspect cranked music or potential door slamming maybe, most likely my fault. Got the extended warranty info about the AC seal, mine still works fine. 

Any of you had the "Spark Plug Misfire" issue? The dealership said they had alot of 2018 with spark plug issues come back, but they also said that was on brand new engines, they said I would have already encountered that problem within days of buying the car. I was lucky, my engine is still running strong with basic maintenance. 

I like the interior, being a short person, i have less driver seat issues, but long distance comfort isn't there, I agree. I put custom car wallpapers on my stereo screen, trusty ol' USB capability, took awhile to figure out the proper resolution, internet wasn't helpful, lots different opinions, had to figure that out myself in the end. 

If the interior is cheap, oh well, its better the what Chevy puts in their cars. 

All my music is used with USB flashdrives, screw radio and bluetooth, flash drives have not failed me yet in 5 years in that car, I hope it never fails, that would be a deal breaker with me. 

The LX doesn't accelerate like I would like, but I'm told a cold air intake would do a tiny bit of acceleration, but I'm skeptical of that. Still more powerful than my 2004 civic, that bugger was slow!!!!

Overall I love this car, I'm gonna drive it till it explodes. 

I feel that my base model LX feels solid, handles ok enough, doesn't feel like its going to fall apart anytime soon.

I'm convinced that the LX is fine! Any trim higher just makes you think its nicer, the chassis and internal component are practically the same, not worth the higher price. In a higher trim all that really matters is bigger engine in my opinion, and you still can't beat anyone off the line in any stock civic unless its a Type R. But, what do I know, I drive an LX...

The car worked fine for the first years. As soon as I paid it off, started giving me issues. Mind you, I’ve taken care of it oil changes and everything else. Bought it with 29 miles - I was the first owner. I barely drove the car due to 2020 pandemic. As of today , it’s at 69,189 miles 2018. The AC doesn’t work- I understand there’s a recall out there for this. I took it to the dealership and they blamed it on me. I went to Honda corporation and went Back and forth - they still don’t take accountability. So I’ve lived with it. Next , the car alarm wasn’t locking the doors. All the windows would roll down when i tried to lock the car. Found some video on YouTube and it worked. Today, I turned it on and it was struggling. I’m like “I just changed the battery in August 2023”. Took it to Valvoline since I don’t go to dealership anymore. They tested battery and it’s fine (healthy) zBy the way, I should mention that the dashboard lights don’t dim when I turn knob. I’m not sure if it’s an electrical issues. I’m incredibly frustrated with this car. My first Honda 2009 worked perfectly fine- it was sadly totaled. I’m incredibly disappointed with Honda. And I really don’t want anymore car payments. But at this point I’m considering next car will be a Toyota. Anyone in the same pickle as me?